GALBÉNIE (REPUBLIC OF GALBÉNIE)

Area: 33,843 km2
Population: 4,128,047
Population Density: 122 inhabitants per km2
Capital: Misinau (Mišiněv) with 630,300 inhabitants
Official Language: Galbénian
Continent: Europe
HISTORY

Galbénie became an independent state in 1991 by declaring independence from the Union of Communist Republics (UCR). Economic difficulties arose from its separation from this community. From a political standpoint, the transition from totalitarianism to a fully functional democracy is not yet complete. Politically, for a long time, Galbénie was oriented to the left, and in 2001, it became the first post-communist country where unreformed communists (Communist Party of the Republic of Galbénie) returned to power democratically. The victory of the communists in the 2001 elections was fueled by the population's dissatisfaction with the sharp decline in the standard of living and fundamental mistakes made by the previous government during the transition to a market economy. The Communist Party, which held political power in the country until about 2020, took a pronounced "pro-Siberian" stance. After the initial attempts to renew comprehensive political and economic ties with Siberia (the successor state of UCR) failed, even the communist administration began to call for greater cooperation with the European Union. Since 2020, "pro-European" oriented politicians have gained political dominance.

The Plavaisko area, located on the eastern bank of the Plavai river with a majority of Siberian-speaking inhabitants, has been a subject of prolonged domestic and international disputes. Following a referendum in 1991, the Plavaisko separatist republic broke away from Galbénie and declared itself an independent state. However, it has not been recognized internationally and is still considered an integral part of Galbénie from an international legal standpoint. The separatist efforts of this region are strongly supported and likely initiated by Siberia, which benefits from the region's instability in its aggressive and coercive policy, and its military units have been continuously present in the region since 1992. The situation is further complicated by the fact that the part of Galbénie on the right bank of the Plavai river is a land with agricultural production, while in Plavaisko, the industry, especially heavy industry, has been established.

Throughout the 1990s, numerous clashes, often military, occurred while addressing the situation. Representatives of Galbénie and neighboring countries met several times to resolve disputes, which were also addressed within the framework of the UN and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Based on the 1993 peace agreement, a 10-kilometer demilitarized zone was created on both banks of the Plavai river, and Siberia, with the consent of Galbénie, deployed a military peacekeeping corps in the separatist region. Despite repeatedly declared partial withdrawals of military units from the region, Siberia has yet to take this step.

PRESENT

Given the unstable situation in the region and Siberia's aggressive and expansive policy towards neighboring states, Galbénie's politicians have repeatedly expressed concerns in early 2023 that a "pro-Siberian" coup is being prepared in the country. According to leaked secret documents, taking control of Galbénie is indeed a long-term strategic interest of Siberia. In March 2023, supporters of the opposition pro-Siberian party in the Galbénie metropolis of Mišiněv protested against the pro-Western government. About 4,500 people gathered in the city center, and police prevented several buses with protesters from entering the capital. Galbénie's police stated that, based on infiltration into the group of protest organizers, they obtained credible information that among the protesters were citizens of Siberia, who, in exchange for $10,000, were to organize riots in Mišiněv with the aim of destabilizing Galbénie. US intelligence officials warned that actors with ties to Siberia would try to exploit the protests in Galbénie to instigate an uprising against the government and carry out a coup.

In April 2023, there was a series of terrorist attacks on the territory of the Plavaisko separatist republic, aimed at damaging military infrastructure and facilities. Among other things, these attacks knocked out 2 radio transmitters that broadcast signals from Siberia's radio stations in the area. The Security Council of the Plavaisko separatist republic accused Galbénie of the attacks. In contrast, the president of Galbénie stated that the "war factions" of Plavaisko were behind the incidents and that the attacks were an attempt to escalate tensions. In this context, there was also talk of "false flag" attacks prepared by Siberia, intended to escalate the situation in the region. As a result of these attacks, the security situation on the borders of Galbénie with the Plavaisko separatist republic intensified in April, with occasional skirmishes and mortar attacks on both sides of the border, resulting in 3 deaths and 10 injuries on the Galbénie side by early May, among both soldiers and civilians. This situation evoked relatively fresh memories among the population of the armed conflict in 1991-1992 when nearly 1,000 people were killed on both sides, including 400 civilians. The situation was further escalated by the president of the Plavaisko separatist republic, who signed a decree at the end of April 2023 to call up reservists. As a result of these events, the migration of non-Siberian-speaking Plavaisko residents, who are often exposed to restrictions and harassing measures by the state organs of the separatist republic on the grounds of national security, increased several times over in late April and early May. At the same time, residents of border areas on both the left and right banks of the Plavai river fear the revival of the frozen armed conflict from the 1990s. The situation is not helped by the fact that Siberia has been maintaining a more permeable border with Plavaisko in recent months, and people from Siberia are coming to Galbénie seeking protection from persecution for political or other reasons or due to their dire economic situation. The main migration route to Galbénie for both Plavaisko and Siberia residents is via the bridge at the Peira village, a border town on the right bank of the Plavai river in Galbénie.

MILITARY DISTRIBUTION IN THE REGION

With the consent of Galbénie, Siberia currently maintains a military peacekeeping corps in the separatist region on the eastern bank of the Plavai river, consisting of approximately 1,500 soldiers. Plavaisko itself, according to some estimates, has an official army with about 7,500 soldiers. The Galbénie army comprises approximately 5,000-7,500 active soldiers and between 65,000 and 70,000 reservists.